Are you ready to unleash your wildest urges?
Allegra Geller has created the ultimate
escape.
A parallel universe called eXistenZ.
Antenna Research is running a focus group
seminar, hosted by the world’s most famed
game designer: Allegra Geller, with a
demo of her latest VR game “eXistenZ”.
She is shot with an undetected gristle gun
by the realist “Noel Dichter”.
Who is gunned down by security guards.
Meanwhile, the sleep security guard
and marketing trainee “Ted Pikul” is tasked
with getting Geller out of there, safely.
At a motel, Geller finds that her pod, which
contains the only copy of eXistenZ, got damaged
since it was ripped out while the game was
downloading.
There’s only 1 thing she can do: plug into
eXistenZ with another player and start troubleshooting.
Pikul is not too keen on this, since he has  tomophobia,
or the fear of being operated on; but agrees to do it.
But first, they got to get him fitted with
a bioport of his own.
Off they go to get an illegal bioport installed
by a black-marketeer named Gas.
But he gives him a faulty one, which damages
the game pod, revealing to both Pikul and Geller his plan
to collect the bounty on Geller’s head as
soon as she’s dead
with a bonus added if eXistenZ is also destroyed.
Pikul rivet-guns him dead before Gas can do
so, and with Geller they get to a former ski
lodge where they meet Kiri Vinokur, Geller’s mentor.
With Kiri’s help, Pikul’s pod is fixed
and his bio-port is replaced.
Once they enter the virtual world, Pikul has
a Rational problem with their actions:
Am I in control or is the game?
When they meet videogame shop owner D’Arcy
Nader, Pikul speaks rudely to him and is surprised
by his impoliteness.
Geller then reveals that his game character
is doing the action, not Pikul.
Nader gives them new micro-pods, through which
they enter another layer of reality.
Here is where they meet Yevgeny Nourish,
who claims to be their contact in the Realist
underground.
Nourish recommends that Pikul order the special
for lunch at a Chinese restaurant near the
factory.
It’s a stressful experience being in the restaurant so much in fact that Pikul pauses the game
"eXistenZ is paused!"
but we have our Matrix problem: for Pikul
reality and the game feel the same.
Leaving him very confused.
Back in the restaurant, Pikul has a sudden
craving for the lunch-special.
Somehow, using the special’s inedible bits,
Pikul mindlessly crafts a pistol like the
one used earlier, which Pikul then uses to
shoot their waiter
After all, it's just a game.
Look, let me explain.
Right now,
they are in a Chinese restaurant, which is near a factory... "fish-monger place".
before that, they were in a videogame shop
and before THAT, they were in a ski lodge
The ski lodge is reality
the video game shop is Level 1
and the Chinese restaurant with the factory is Level 2
I hope you understood that, back to the movie.
The game engine has some limitations: the
customers around them seem to pause before
going back to their meals, after Pikul sheepishly
tells them it was a misunderstanding about
the bill.
They meet with Yevgeny Nourish after the incident,
privately next to the fisheries of the mutant
animals which are used for the ‘nervous
systems of the game pods’ and here he reveals
that the animals are also used to make parts
for guns, and that Pikul and Geller should return to work
as agents of the Realist underground against Cortical Systematics, who are the “Enemy of Reality”
They go back to the game store, where Hugh
Carlaw explains that Nadar is a spy for
Cortical Systematics, and the chinese waiter
Pikul shot was their actual contact to the Realist
Underground basically inside men on their
side., while Yevegeny Nourish is a double
agent whose job is to make Pikul and Geller
fail in their mission.
The next day, they duo find a diseased pod
and create a plan to sabotage the game pods
in the factory by getting Geller infected, and
using her to spread the disease.
Pikul frees her after she becomes infected,
by cutting her umbycord.
The plan goes terribly wrong, because Geller
almost bleeds to death and then Nourish comes
in with a flamethrower, shooting it at the diseased
pod.
Which bursts, releasing deadly spores all
over the factory.
Geller stabs Nourish in the back with a
knife and the duo find themselves pulled back
to the ski lodge.
But the disease of the factory’s pod is
transmitted to Geller’s real game pod in
the real world, which Pikul rightfully questions.
Pikul’s back scratching is noticed by Geller,
who concludes that Kiri Vinokur gave Pikul an infected
bioport to destroy eXistenZ.
Geller’s plugs in a ‘disinfecting device’
into Pikul’s bioport.
Meaning they can’t play the game in the mean time
Geller’s game pod is dying when out of nowhere,
a guerilla fighter enters the room!
It’s Carlaw!
And he’s a Realist resistance fighter!
Outside, the trio witness a firefight by the Realist faction and whoever's around
Carlaw has one last thing to do however:
Kill the Demonness Allegra Geller,
he lines up the sights but gets shot by Vinokur!
Who reveals he’s a Cortical Systems double
agent!
He also copied all of her game pod data while
he was fixing her pod.
While Vinokur is busy talking with Pikul,
Geller shoots Vinokur dead with Carlaw’s
gun.
Pikul confronts Geller, angry at her casual
murder.
Her defense is that they’re still in the
game.
His: What if we’re not?
What if this isn't a game?
Then a twist: Pikul is actually another assassin:
a Realist planted to assassinate her.
But, Geller already knew this: his little
joke in the restaurant clued her in and the
‘antibacteria plugin’ that’s in his
bioport?
It’s a bomb.
With Pikul dead, she cheers her victory, when
a blue headset and controller appear on her
arm and head.
Pressing a button, she awakens next to an
unharmed Pikul who, together, are sitting on a stage,
along with Yevgenev Nourish, the Chinese
Waiter, the Seminar Leader, Kiri Vinokur,
Gas, D’Arcy Nadar, Noel Dichter, and others
encountered in the game.
Yevgeny Nourish, is actually the game designer of
the demo of the game, "tranCendenZ"
and confides privately with his assistant that it was‘disturbing’,
with it’s ‘anti-game’
undertones,  having the assassination of a game designer. Ouch.
He suspects that someone amongst them must
have influenced the game.
Pikul and Geller along with a familiar dog
approach Nourish and ask a simple question:
“Don’t you think you should suffer for
all the harm you’ve done and intend to do
to the human race?” for “deforming reality”.
Nourish’s assistant, Merle calls for security,
but Pikul and Geller grab pistols hidden under
the dog’s false mane and shoot Merle and
Nourish to death.
The play-testers are frozen or have subdued
reactions as Pikul and Geller leave.
They find the person who played the Chinese
waiter sitting down in a chair, and aim their
guns at him.
He pleads for his life and then asks them,
uncertainly “if they are still in the game?”
The movie ends framing Pikul and Geller standing
together, guns pointed towards the camera.
Thank you so much for watching, ladies and gentlemen
we hoped you enjoyed it, and if you did,
leave a like down below, and subscribe to get our latest updates on our latest uploads.
until next time, I got to figure out what's real